Talks on Nuclear Deal to Restrain Iran Hit a Snag

GENEVA — Negotiations by the United States and five other major powers on an agreement to temporarily freeze Iran’s nuclear program hit a snag on Saturday, as France questioned whether the deal being drafted would do enough to curb Iran’s nuclear ambitions. But diplomats were struggling into the evening to see if they could overcome their differences.

After several days of optimistic reports that the negotiations with Iran could produce an agreement — the first of its kind in a decade — the marathon talks on Saturday laid bare the challenge of crafting a deal that would satisfy both the Iranians and a group of major powers with their own interests and agendas.

Signs of division among the foreign ministers meeting in Geneva first emerged when France questioned whether the proposed deal would do enough to curb the development of a nuclear reactor that would produce plutonium, or limit Iran’s enrichment of uranium.

The French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, said a draft of a potential agreement was unacceptable to France and there was no certainty that this round of negotiations would lead to an agreement. “We are hoping for a deal, but for the moment there are still issues that have not been resolved,” he told France Inter radio.

His comments came amid a whirl of diplomatic activity, with Secretary of State John Kerry and foreign ministers from Britain, France, Germany and Russia engaged in round-robin meetings with Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, and the European Union’s foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, who is overseeing the talks.

Hopes that a deal was at hand surged when Mr. Kerry cut short a trip to the Middle East to fly to Geneva on Friday. But he, too, sought to temper expectations, saying after he arrived that an agreement had not yet been reached and that gaps needed to be narrowed. On Saturday, Mr. Kerry made no further comment before a two-hour meeting with Mr. Zarif.

While talks continued on Saturday afternoon, it increasingly appeared that the negotiators would be unable to overcome gaps in this round, and officials said they hoped to return in coming weeks to try again.

American officials said they sensed an opportunity to wrap up an interim accord that would freeze Iran’s program for perhaps six months so there would be time for both sides to reach a more lasting agreement. But they also said the United States was ready to meet again in a couple of weeks should the remaining differences prove difficult to overcome.

“It’s important that Iran knows we’ll walk away if our concerns aren’t met,” a senior administration official said, “but we do have substantive outlines set well enough that it’s worth trying to narrow gaps.”

France has taken a harder line than the United States in recent years on curbing Iran’s capacity to produce nuclear fuel that could be used in weapons. Diplomats said the French were particularly concerned about the heavy-water reactor being built near Arak, because it would produce plutonium, an alternative to uranium for fueling a weapon.

Daryl Kimball, the executive director of the Arms Control Association, said the plant could be dealt with in a future phase of the talks because it would take a year for it to be completed and much more time for it produce plutonium that could be extracted for a bomb.

But Mr. Kerry said during his recent visit to Israel that the United States was asking Iran, as part of an interim accord, to agree to a “complete freeze over where they are today,” implying that Iran’s plutonium production program would be affected in some way as well. Under a compromise favored by some American officials, Iran might agree to refrain from operating the facility for six months, while continuing to work on the installation.

Once the reactor at Arak is operational, as early as next year, it might be very hard to disable it through a military strike without risking the dispersal of nuclear material. That risk might eliminate one of the West’s options for responding to Iran and reduce its leverage in the talks.



Right Wing’s Surge in Europe Has the Establishment Rattled

HVIDOVRE, Denmark — As right-wing populists surge across Europe, rattling established political parties with their hostility toward immigration, austerity and the European Union, Mikkel Dencker of the Danish People’s Party has found yet another cause to stir public anger: pork meatballs missing from kindergartens.



A member of Denmark’s Parliament and, he hopes, mayor of this commuter-belt town west of Copenhagen, Mr. Dencker is furious that some day care centers have removed meatballs, a staple of traditional Danish cuisine, from their cafeterias in deference to Islamic dietary rules. No matter that only a handful of kindergartens have actually done so. The missing meatballs, he said, are an example of how “Denmark is losing its identity” under pressure from outsiders.

The issue has become a headache for Mayor Helle Adelborg, whose center-left Social Democratic Party has controlled the town council since the 1920s but now faces an uphill struggle before municipal elections on Nov. 19. “It is very easy to exploit such themes to get votes,” she said. “They take a lot of votes from my party. It is unfair.”

It is also Europe’s new reality. All over, established political forces are losing ground to politicians whom they scorn as fear-mongering populists. In France, according to a recent opinion poll, the far-right National Front has become the country’s most popular party. In other countries — Austria, Britain, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Finland and the Netherlands — disruptive upstart groups are on a roll.

This phenomenon alarms not just national leaders but also officials in Brussels who fear that European Parliament elections next May could substantially tip the balance of power toward nationalists and forces intent on halting or reversing integration within the European Union.

“History reminds us that high unemployment and wrong policies like austerity are an extremely poisonous cocktail,” said Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, a former Danish prime minister and a Social Democrat. “Populists are always there. In good times it is not easy for them to get votes, but in these bad times all their arguments, the easy solutions of populism and nationalism, are getting new ears and votes.”

In some ways, this is Europe’s Tea Party moment — a grass-roots insurgency fired by resentment against a political class that many Europeans see as out of touch. The main difference, however, is that Europe’s populists want to strengthen, not shrink, government and see the welfare state as an integral part of their national identities.

The trend in Europe does not signal the return of fascist demons from the 1930s, except in Greece, where the neo-Nazi party Golden Dawn has promoted openly racist beliefs, and perhaps in Hungary, where the far-right Jobbik party backs a brand of ethnic nationalism suffused with anti-Semitism.

But the soaring fortunes of groups like the Danish People’s Party, which some popularity polls now rank ahead of the Social Democrats, point to a fundamental political shift toward nativist forces fed by a curious mix of right-wing identity politics and left-wing anxieties about the future of the welfare state.

“This is the new normal,” said Flemming Rose, the foreign editor at the Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten. “It is a nightmare for traditional political elites and also for Brussels.”

The platform of France’s National Front promotes traditional right-wing causes like law and order and tight controls on immigration but reads in parts like a leftist manifesto. It accuses “big bosses” of promoting open borders so they can import cheap labor to drive down wages. It rails against globalization as a threat to French language and culture, and it opposes any rise in the retirement age or cuts in pensions.

Similarly, in the Netherlands, Geert Wilders, the anti-Islam leader of the Party for Freedom, has mixed attacks on immigration with promises to defend welfare entitlements. “He is the only one who says we don’t have to cut anything,” said Chris Aalberts, a scholar at Erasmus University in Rotterdam and author of a book based on interviews with Mr. Wilders’s supporters. “This is a popular message.”

Mr. Wilders, who has police protection because of death threats from Muslim extremists, is best known for his attacks on Islam and demands that the Quran be banned. These issues, Mr. Aalberts said, “are not a big vote winner,” but they help set him apart from deeply unpopular centrist politicians who talk mainly about budget cuts. The success of populist parties, Mr. Aalberts added, “is more about the collapse of the center than the attractiveness of the alternatives.”



Reporter for Reuters Won’t Receive China Visa

BEIJING — The Chinese government has rejected the visa application of a veteran American journalist who had been waiting eight months to begin a new reporting job in China for Thomson Reuters, the company said.

The reporter, Paul Mooney, said the Chinese Foreign Ministry told Reuters on Friday that it would not grant him a resident journalist visa but declined to provide a reason. Mr. Mooney returned to the United States last year after the expiration of his previous visa, which was sponsored by The South China Morning Post, a newspaper based in Hong Kong.

The rejection comes at a time of rising tensions between foreign news organizations and the government, which has been using its economic clout, the issuance of visas and Internet controls to express displeasure with coverage it deems unflattering.

“China has been my career,” Mr. Mooney, who has spent three decades covering Asia, the last 18 years based in Beijing, said Saturday in a phone interview. “I never thought it was going to end this way. I’m sad and disappointed.”

The websites for Bloomberg News and The New York Times have been blocked in China for more than a year following the publication of investigative articles by both news organizations that detailed the wealth accumulated by relatives of top Chinese leaders. Since then, employees for both Bloomberg and The Times have been awaiting residency visas that would allow them to report from China.

Such tactics appear to have had an impact. On Saturday, The Times detailed a decision late last month by Bloomberg to withhold publication of an investigative report, more than a year in the works, that explored hidden financial ties between one of China’s wealthiest men and the families of senior Chinese leaders. Company employees said the editor in chief, Matthew Winkler, defended the decision by comparing it to the self-censorship by foreign news bureaus that sought to remain working inside Nazi Germany.

Mr. Winkler and a senior editor denied that the articles had been killed and said they would eventually be published.

The Chinese government’s rejection of Mr. Mooney’s visa request will certainly add to the anxieties of foreign reporters in China, many of whom complain of cyberattacks, police interference and intimidation, especially during the annual visa renewal process, currently underway, which sometimes involves interviews with Foreign Ministry officials or public security personnel.

In a statement, the Foreign Correspondents Club of China said, “Such delays and lack of transparency merely add to the impression that the visa process is being used by the authorities to intimidate journalists and media organizations.”

Last year, Al Jazeera English shut its Beijing bureau after the authorities refused to renew press credentials and the visa of its China correspondent, Melissa Chan. Although they did not explain the reasons behind Ms. Chan’s expulsion, the first from China in 14 years, it was widely seen as retaliation for her hard-hitting coverage of Chinese society.

An American currently based in San Francisco, Ms. Chan said the Chinese government’s recent efforts to bully some of the largest foreign news organizations would have an insidious trickle-down effect on smaller media outlets, especially those from Southeast Asia and Africa that cannot afford to lose what may be their sole correspondent in China. “It’s got to have a chilling effect that leads to some level of self-censorship,” she said in a phone interview on Saturday.

Mr. Mooney said he suspected that the government’s decision to deny him a visa was punishment for his persistent coverage of human rights abuses in China. In April, after submitting his visa application to the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco, he was summoned for an interview, where he was questioned about previous articles and asked to explain his position on delicate issues like Tibet. The interview ended with a barely veiled threat. “They said, ‘If we give you a visa, we hope you’ll be more balanced with your coverage,’ ” he said he was told.

Mr. Mooney, 63, now living in Berkeley, Calif., said Reuters told him that it would not continue pressing China over the issue.

Barb Burg, a spokeswoman for Reuters in New York, said, “We are in the process of considering other posts for Paul within Reuters.” Calls to the Foreign Ministry in Beijing went unanswered.



Red Cross Fears 1,000 Deaths in Philippine Typhoon 

MANILA — The powerful typhoon that swept across the Philippines on Friday cut a path of destruction through several central islands, leaving the seaside city of Tacloban in ruins and leading to early, unconfirmed estimates of at least 1,200 dead.

Although the government said it could confirm only about 140 deaths so far, the Red Cross in Manila said its people on the ground were reporting an estimated 1,000 deaths on Leyte Island, where Tacloban is, and about 200 from the neighboring island of Samar.

“The local Red Cross chapter has seen many bodies,” Gwendolyn Pang, the secretary general of the Philippine Red Cross, said in a text message. “An actual body count has to be done to determine the exact number.”

By some accounts, Typhoon Haiyan, called Yolanda in the Philippines, was one of the strongest storms on record when it hit land, with some meteorologists reporting sustained winds in excess of 190 miles per hour.

Photos and television footage showed fierce winds ripping tin roofs off homes and sending ocean water crashing into buildings, some of which crumpled. Footage from Tacloban shows water rushing through the streets of the city, which has an estimated population of 220,000.

Reuters quoted a spokesman for the national disaster agency as saying almost all the houses there were either badly damaged or destroyed, and reported that the manager of the airport, on a strip of land that juts into the ocean, had estimated that water there rose up to 13 feet.

The Associated Press quoted a bicycle taxi driver who lives near the airport as saying that he and his family took refuge in a parked jeep, which was swept away in the roiling waters. The man, Sandy Torotoro, said that as the vehicle floated by, many people screamed for help as they were swept away, waving their hands above the water.

“But what can we do?” he said. “We also needed to be helped.”

Officials have reported seeing bodies strewn along the roadside and survivors desperately searching for food and water.

The Social Welfare and Development Department reported that the storm affected 4.28 million people in about 270 towns and cities spread across 36 provinces in the central Philippines.

President Benigno S. Aquino III said at a news briefing on Saturday evening in Manila that he would visit the hardest-hit areas on Sunday, and that he expected there to be “substantially more” deaths than the 140 the government has confirmed so far. “We are not prepared to say how much more at this point in time, because that is also being collated,” he said.

Mr. Aquino added that the restoration of communications was a priority so that rescue efforts can be coordinated. The government has been flying in military cargo planes carrying food, clothing and shelters, but roads blocked by debris have made distribution difficult.

A United Nations disaster assessment team visited the area on Saturday.

“The last time I saw something of this scale was in the aftermath of the Indian Ocean tsunami,” Sebastian Rhodes Stampa, the head of the team, said in a statement, referring to the 2004 tsunami that devastated parts of Indonesia and other countries. “This is destruction on a massive scale. There are cars thrown like tumbleweed, and the streets are strewn with debris.”

“The roads between the airport and the town are completely blocked,” he said, “and relief operations will be extremely difficult.”



Before Global Games, Rio Is Fighting to Dim Red Light

RIO DE JANEIRO — In the frenzy to prepare this city for its big moment as host of next year’s World Cup and the 2016 Summer Olympics, the authorities are razing slums, upgrading stadiums and shuttering some of the city’s red-light emporiums, hoping to present a cleaned-up image of Brazil’s sexiest metropolis.

But stomachs are churning here as some of Rio’s highest-profile visitors make a beeline for a leafy street in Ipanema to visit Centaurus, arguably the city’s most legendary brothel. This month it was the 19-year-old Canadian pop superstar Justin Bieber, photographed by paparazzi as he left the club underneath what appeared to be a bedsheet. Before that, nearly a dozen players and coaches from Mexico’s national soccer team partied at the same house of assignation, which is in one of Rio’s most exclusive seaside districts.

The list of notables caught in the public glare at Centaurus goes on, including the American actor Vin Diesel and the Brazilian funk singer who goes by Mr. Catra, famous for having fathered 23 children, offering up exactly the kind of images that make the authorities cringe as they press ahead with raids of brothels and nightclubs favored by prostitutes. “There’s something of a moral panic in Rio as we get closer to these mega-events,” said Laura Murray, a filmmaker and scholar who documents prostitution in Brazil. “Politicians think they have a chance to redefine the city, so they are cracking down.”

Seeking to dispel Rio’s association with sex tourism in the imagination of visitors and residents alike, officials are adopting an aggressive, vice-squad approach. Like a shot across the bow, they seized and destroyed Help, the iconic club on Copacabana beach where prostitutes would rendezvous with clients, under a plan to replace it with a music-themed museum.

Described as a “hygienization” campaign, the clampdown is fueling discussion of the rights of prostitutes, whether large sporting events put prostitutes at risk of human trafficking groups and the ribald essence of Rio itself, especially since prostitution is legal across Brazil.

Complicating matters, pimping and running a bordello remain illegal, putting businesses like Centaurus, the spot favored by foreign celebrities, in a legal gray area.

In the days around the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in 2012, the police raided more than 10 brothels and nightclubs, including Centaurus. Two managers were arrested at Centaurus, where the police said they found the equivalent of about $150,000 in cash and 90 prostitutes working at the time of the raid.

But in a twist, a judge thwarted the effort to shut one of the sites down. In a ruling that helped give Centaurus and other brothels a new lease on life, the judge contended that prosecutors had undertaken a “repressive” approach to dealing with prostitution.

Centaurus, in a three-story building whose entrance is marked with the image of a centaur, the mythical creature that is half man and half horse, seems to be holding up under the pressure. Men who have recently frequented it (female customers are not welcome) said they paid an entrance fee of about $60 at the front door, where they were promptly greeted by dozens of scantily clad “program girls,” as prostitutes are commonly called in Brazil.

Under the house rules, customers must remove their clothes and are given the Centaurus uniform: an ill-fitting white bathrobe and black Havaianas flip-flops. They can relax in the sauna on the ground level or make their way to the bar on the second floor, where the prostitutes go over their services, starting at more than $200 for a 40-minute encounter in a room on the premises.

Mr. Bieber and his bodyguards spent about three hours in Centaurus, according to local news reports, and left with two prostitutes. It was a tumultuous week for Mr. Bieber: in addition to leaving Centaurus under a shroud of bed linen, he was hit with a plastic bottle while performing onstage in São Paulo and the police want to question him after he sprayed graffiti on a wall in Rio. A spokeswoman for Mr. Bieber did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

While the origins of Centaurus and even its current ownership are somewhat murky, Ana Paula da Silva, an anthropologist who studies Rio’s sex trade, said the brothel stands out as the most exclusive place here where relatively prosperous customers, especially foreigners, can easily go to pay for sex. “Centaurus was always known as a house for executives,” she said.

A brochure available at the entrance, replete with misspellings, describes Centaurus as a “sophisticated supper club” featuring a “cozy lounge with whiskey-bar, and nigth-club witch features the most erotic shows.”

Little is publicly known about who owns Centaurus, though one man mentioned in police and news reports as involved in running it, Jean Panázio, served time in prison for attempted murder and rape. Guards at the entrance refused to provide any information about their superiors; a receptionist who answered the phone promptly hung up when asked the same question.



Syrians on Both Sides of the War Increasingly See Assad as Likely to Stay

BEIRUT, Lebanon — A growing number of Syrians on both sides of their country’s conflict, along with regional analysts and would-be mediators, are demanding new strategies to end the civil war, based on what they see as an inescapable new reality: President Bashar al-Assad is staying in office, at least for now.

They say the insistence from the United States-backed opposition that Mr. Assad must go before peace talks can begin is outdated, failing to reflect the situation on the ground. Rather, they say, a deal to end or ease the violence must involve Mr. Assad and requires more energetic outreach to members of his government and security forces, with concrete proposals and reassurances that could bring compromise.

They also contend that the American-backed exile opposition coalition that remains at the center of Washington’s policy has little relevance and no respect from combatants on either side. These critics of American policy say that the United States and its coalition ally are helping guarantee that diplomacy remains paralyzed as Syrians die.

On Friday, the exile coalition declared it would not attend a meeting in Moscow that would have brought it together with Syrian government officials for the first time, albeit to focus narrowly on addressing Syria’s deepening humanitarian crisis. The sticking point: Moscow also invited Assad opponents who are more willing to compromise.

The critics say there is no indication that Mr. Assad is headed for imminent defeat; indeed, he seems to be increasing his grip on parts of the country. So they are reluctantly embracing a scaled-down goal of a transitional government that in the medium term includes Mr. Assad.

The best hope, they say, is to gradually blunt the violence in a Syria that will long remain divided among areas dominated by jihadist fighters, more-moderate elements of the opposition and a transitional government.

Changing course is urgent, the critics say, because as the prospects for the peace talks in Geneva recede, Syria is falling apart. In the north, extremist jihadist groups are terrorizing residents, clashing with rival rebels and establishing a base that poses threats beyond Syria’s borders. Hunger and disease are on the rise. Polio is resurgent. More than nine million Syrians have been displaced from their homes, the equivalent, by percentage of the population, of more than 100 million Americans on the move.

“There is a sense of surreality” to United States policy, said Ryan C. Crocker, a former ambassador to Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan and now the dean of the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University. “ ‘Assad must go.’ Well, Assad isn’t going to go.”

Mr. Crocker and others say the current approach fails to capitalize on a growing center of Syrians exhausted by the war who have lost their enthusiasm for either side and fear that Syria is becoming a failed state.

Dozens of interviews with a broad spectrum of Syrians across the country bear out the growth of such a group, who often call themselves the “gray” middle. Many complain that no one represents them in what has become, like the Lebanese civil war that dragged on for 15 years, an international proxy war that extremists and profiteers on both sides have a vested interest in prolonging.

In interviews on opposite ends of West Beirut in recent days, two Syrians from opposite sides of the conflict — an antigovernment activist married to a rebel commander and a government supporter with ties to members of the security establishment — expressed similar feelings: a passionate love of Syria and a desire to end the destruction and killing.

They proposed opposite compromise solutions. The rebel’s wife said Mr. Assad could stay as long as the security forces were completely overhauled. The government supporter called for replacing Mr. Assad, but keeping the core of the military and security leadership in place.

Several people familiar with the official diplomacy say that Western diplomats have quietly met recently with one or two Syrian officials and government-connected figures, but have offered them little of substance.

“The best thing the West is offering Assad now is a cell in The Hague,” said Randa Slim, a research fellow at the New America Foundation and a scholar at the Middle East Institute, who is closely following official and unofficial efforts for dialogue, referring to the location of the International Criminal Court. But any deal, she said, “is bound to involve people with blood on their hands.”

“There are no saints in wars,” she continued.



Politically Adrift, Algeria Clings to Its Old Ways

ALGIERS — Algeria seems stuck in a state of limbo.

The 76-year-old president, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, 14 years into his tenure, has not addressed the nation in more than a year and is chair-bound since suffering a stroke in April. Since then, he has held just three meetings with foreign dignitaries. Outside a tight circle, no one is even sure if he still speaks. Still, the ruling National Liberation Front, clinging to stability in a chaotic region, is backing Mr. Bouteflika for a fourth term in presidential elections set for April.

Before a postponement was announced because of the Iran nuclear negotiations, Secretary of State John Kerry was scheduled to visit here on Sunday, but it was not clear that he would have met the president. Mr. Kerry’s mission to persuade this critical strategic partner — with vast oil wealth, a powerful army and intelligence service, and experience in fighting Islamic terrorism — to take a more assertive role in the region will be no easy task.

“Algeria should be a big actor in this part of the world, but it is not playing its role,” Ihsane el-Kadi of Maghreb Emergent, an online business publication, said in an interview. “It is still a closed country.”

Indeed, critics and other observers say the generation of leaders who won Algeria’s independence from France in 1962 and still run the country half a century later will continue to resist any change. A civil war against Islamic extremists in the 1990s — at the cost of about 200,000 lives — has left the population wary of change, too. The result has been that a variety of problems, like a prostrate economy and declining levels of education, have been left to fester and now threaten to undermine the country’s future and even eventual stability.

The government’s paralysis is among the most apparent symptoms of the nation’s malaise and of the leadership’s wariness of political transition. Just how the country is run, and by whom, is so opaque that diplomats and journalists say they are reduced to an Algerian version of Kremlin watching.

A clutch of army generals, intelligence officials and aides, including Saïd Bouteflika, the president’s brother, surrounds the president, and only loyalists are promoted. Algerians, generally, do not talk of government in this still largely Francophone country, but rather refer simply to it as “le pouvoir” — or the power.

Since January, when Algeria experienced firsthand the lawlessness spreading anew from neighboring Libya when Islamists seized hostages at the gas plant at In Amenas in the south, the government has stepped up security along its borders and American interest in security cooperation to combat Al Qaeda’s spread across North Africa has increased.

“We took the decision to strengthen our borders,” said Amara Benyounes, the minister of industrial development and investment. “It is costing us a lot, but is important. We are condemned to be very vigilant.”

But some here warn that, on the domestic front at least, the government has shown a surfeit of vigilance against political and economic opening as social tensions and sporadic rioting keep building. Despite Algeria’s oil wealth, residents complain of inflation, rising crime and a lack of opportunity. Economists bemoan economic stagnation and stifling bureaucracy that make Algeria one of the most difficult places to do business.

There are frequent strikes, and localized riots flare up constantly all over the country. Unemployment, officially 10 percent, is in reality closer to 30 percent, according to Rachid Tlemcani, professor in international politics and regional security at the University of Algiers. The police recorded 11,000 riots or outbreaks of public unrest of some kind in 2011, he said. Since then the trend has grown uglier. “In the past these riots were more or less under control, but it is reaching the point where no one is controlling them,” Professor Tlemcani said.

Ahmed Benbitour, a former prime minister and presidential contender, warns of trouble among the middle classes, too. “We have 1.5 million students at university,” he said. “Each year 300,000 graduates come on to the jobs market. Can we create 300,000 jobs?”

He said the country was “heading toward an explosion.”



With Survey, Vatican Seeks Laity Comment on Family Issues

ROME — Often, when the Vatican speaks, it can be a fairly one-sided conversation, issuing encyclicals and other formal documents stating the Roman Catholic Church’s official position on doctrine or other matters.

But Pope Francis, who has already shaken up the Vatican, is asking the world’s one billion Catholics for their opinions on a questionnaire covering social issues like same-sex marriage, cohabitation by unwed couples, contraception, and the place of divorced and remarried people in the church.

“It’s something that is totally new,” said Msgr. Alberto Pala, a parish priest at the Cathedral of Cagliari in Sardinia, Italy. “And we are very pleased.”

The questionnaire is being distributed to bishops worldwide in advance of their synod next fall. Family is the theme of that meeting, with bishops expected to grapple with how the church should address issues like divorce and same-sex marriage. In the past, the Vatican has determined the agenda for synods and sought opinions from bishops’ conferences around the world.

This time, however, some analysts say, the style and content of the questionnaire represent a deliberate effort by Francis to engage ordinary Catholics, unlike in the past when synods have attracted little attention. Francis has also raised expectations by changing the format, with next year’s meeting framed as a prelude to a second synod in 2015 that could bring proposed changes, even if few expect him to pursue major doctrinal shifts.

In recent days, the Vatican has sought to play down the importance of the questionnaire. This week, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, the Vatican spokesman, denied that Francis was “polling” the laity and said the questions were part of a routine preparatory document for the synod.

But other Catholic leaders clearly see the questionnaire as a significant overture that could raise expectations among Catholics for next year’s synod. The bishops of England and Wales put the questions online, while Vatican Radio, the church’s official news media outlet, also posted the questionnaire, accompanied by an interview with Bishop John Hine of Britain extolling the document as “extremely significant.”

“It really responds to the desire for the people, the laity in the church, to be consulted on matters which concern them so deeply,” Bishop Hine told Vatican Radio. “Couples are delighted that they’re going to be involved in the consultations.”

Alberto Melloni, a Vatican historian, said the questionnaire is especially significant because it seeks a snapshot of Catholic families as they are, and uses a nonjudgmental tone to gauge opinions on the church’s pastoral response to contentious issues.

“It asks to start with the reality of the family, not the doctrine of the family,” said Mr. Melloni, the director of the John XXIII Foundation for Religious Studies in Bologna, a liberal research institute. “What we will see in the next few months will be a flourishing of opinion, debate and discussion.”

First reported by the National Catholic Reporter, the questionnaire was sent to bishops’ conferences worldwide on Oct. 18 by Archbishop Lorenzo Baldisseri, a Vatican official involved in preparations for next year’s meeting. In the letter, Archbishop Baldisseri asked that the questions be distributed to parishes to broaden the process of consultation.

With 39 questions, the document is broken into nine subsections, including No. 5: “On Unions of Persons of the Same Sex.” One question asks whether “your country” recognizes same-sex civil unions, while another asks about the attitude that parishes hold toward governments that support civil unions or same-sex marriages. “What pastoral attention can be given to people who have chosen to live in these types of union?” another question asks.

Another subsection seeks to explore “Pastoral Care in Certain Difficult Marital Situations” and asks about unmarried couples’ living together. There are questions on how many divorced or remarried people ask to receive the sacraments and whether simplifying the canonical practice of nullifying a marriage would “provide a positive contribution.”

On Friday, the bishops in Belgium placed the survey online and asked for responses from the nation’s Catholics by mid-December. But in the United States, the decision on how and whether to distribute the questionnaire will depend on individual bishops, according to Sister Mary Ann Walsh, the director of media relations for the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops.

“Some are putting it on the Internet, and some will get information in other ways,” she said. She noted that the Vatican typically sought information before a synod, which is supposed to be a free exchange of ideas, but said the questions this year “may be a way of tailoring the issues a little closer.”

In Italy, several parish priests said that they had yet to see the questionnaire but that they were excited based on accounts in the Italian news media. In Sardinia, Monsignor Pala said that the questionnaire would demand much work and that he was planning to summon his parish’s pastoral council — parents, members of lay associations and others — to glean thoughts.

“It’s a matter of communicating, which is what we do every day,” he said. “The bishops need the people’s opinion and our interpretation of the doctrine.”



36 Hours in Aruba

Averaging 82 sunny degrees year round, fringed with blond beaches and lapped by turquoise shallows, Aruba lets the climate do the talking when it comes to appealing to tourists. Beach lovers flock here, happy to claim a chaise with a paperback in one hand and a cold Balashi beer in the other. But the Dutch island’s manageable 20-by-6-mile dimensions and its desert landscape — calm and sandy on one coast, rough and rocky on the other — make it an explorer’s island, too. Notably multicultural, with Dutch, the Creole-like Papiamento, Spanish and English commonly spoken, the island is also increasingly sophisticated, with an aloe-focused spa, a new avant-garde restaurant and a Ritz-Carlton resort, the island’s most luxurious property, set to open Nov. 22.

FRIDAY

3 p.m.1. Racket Club

Aruba may be famous for kite surfing, but it’s also known for the hybrid sport of beach tennis. Played on a beach volleyball court with elongated paddle tennis rackets, depressurized balls and a 5-foot-7-inch-high net, the all-volley game has a big following among islanders, European visitors and ranked players who show up each November for an international tournament. MooMba Beach Bar & Restaurant on Palm Beach has four lighted courts run by Beach Tennis Aruba, where you can rent a ball and paddle ($5). (Note: Dollars are widely accepted.) After you work up a sweat, it’s a quick sprint into the ocean.

6 p.m.2. Sunset Salute

Despite the number of casinos promising late-night action, night life on Aruba tends to center on the predinner cocktail hour when the sun dips into the ocean and the rum flows freely. Any west-facing beach bar will do, but it’s worth seeking out Pinchos Grill & Bar near downtown Oranjestad for extra atmosphere. Elevated on a pier at the Aruba Surfside Marina Hotel, the family-owned Pinchos offers shade in the form of sail-like awnings and candlelight to add to the romance factor once the sun has faded. Find a spot at the circular central bar for one of nine margaritas listed on the extensive bar menu ($10 for the Golden Gate made with Grand Marnier), best paired with the mango margarita shrimp appetizer ($10).

7:30 p.m.3. Barefoot in the Dark

Barefoot defies its unexpected location by the Reina Beatrix International Airport’s runway with its romantic beachfront ambience. Indoor dining is loosely defined here as 18 tables under a giant palapa. But most diners — honeymooners, local families and sunset photo snappers — opt for the 20 tables planted on the beach and lit by tiki torches. Opened in 2010 by Gerco Aan het Rot and Luc Beerepoot, the chef and the maître d’, the restaurant specializes in Burgundy beef stew ($28), a recipe from the chef’s grandmother, and other Dutch-Caribbean fusions like grouper in a cheese crust ($26.50). Even the occasional airplane landing is more spectacle than nuisance.

SATURDAY

8 a.m.4. Beach Bagging

The adjacent west-coast Eagle and Palm Beaches are lined with towering resorts and staked by beach clubs. But with a rental car you can string together a series of much more tranquil spots. After driving north, haul out your snorkeling gear at the pocket cove of Malmok Beach, which offers walk-in access to offshore coral heads teeming with reef fish. Join local families at nearby Arashi Beach, where a gentle drop-off ensures good bodysurfing on a breezy day. The main road continues north past a series of sand dunes, ending at the hilltop California Lighthouse, a whitewashed 1910 signal tower named for a ship that sank before its construction. Buy a fresh coconut ($3) from one of the vendors here and sip the refreshing coconut water while drinking in the 360-degree view.

11:30 a.m.5. Studio Call

Shopping on Aruba tends to involve either the same luxury-end diamond and fashion outlets seen in every popular Caribbean cruise port or cheap trinkets and T-shirts. Perhaps the best souvenir you can bring back is a piece of artwork by Elisa Lejuez, whose colorful, richly patterned canvases can be found at hotels throughout the island. Some of her designs are featured on scarves ($100) and dresses ($170) sold at the Eva Boutique in Oranjestad. But make a trip to her studio on the north end of the island to see her canvases that layer paint and imagery in colorful collages (paintings from $850). The artist herself guides visitors through the studio.

1 p.m.6. Fish on the Dock



Festivals Where the Beat Makes You Move

Am I the only one who returns from the Caribbean acutely in need of rest? Blame the music. The region is drenched in genres I crave — reggae, calypso, zouk, and the list goes on — which means that night after night has me feeling like Odysseus battling the Sirens: cursed be that delicious din at the dancehall or the rum shop, destined to foil my fantasy of an early night’s sleep.

Yet who can resist nights of all-star performances by Caribbean acts, many of whom rarely make it to our shores? Not to mention big-name American artists, under-the-stars settings, the party-never-ends élan of those daytime fetes and the scent of local food vendors grilling up goodness at outdoor stalls. Add to that the sheer electricity of what feels like an entire island caught up in the vim and vigor of it all, and the conclusion is inevitable: sleep, begone!

Below, the crème de la crème of annual Caribbean music festivals, from small-island shindigs to marathon productions luring thousands.

JANUARY

Love City LiveSt. John, U.S. Virgin Islands

Small island, small hustle-and-bustle — big vibes. Consider it your consummate starter fest: a long-weekend affair (in 2014, Jan. 24 to 26) featuring a local food fair, D.J.’d beach party, beautiful-people-filled powerboat cruise to neighboring Jost Van Dyke and climactic reggae concert showcasing Jamaican stars — including Beres Hammond, who is scheduled to appear next year — and up-and-coming Virgin Island musicians. Information: experiencelovecitylive.com.

Jamaica Jazz and Blues FestivalTrelawny, Jamaica

The name is disingenuous: There’s barely any blues and only the faint flavor of jazz. You won’t mind, though; in 17 years this three-night blockbuster festival, drawing tens of thousands from as far as Japan and as near as the tony suburbs of Kingston, has hosted R&B and reggae acts ranging from Harry Belafonte, Diana Ross and Celine Dion to the Jamaican pop star Shaggy and the reggae crooner Maxi Priest. The open-air stadium venue, in the verdant parish of Trelawny, is decked out in enough sexy décor — white tents, ambient lighting — to make you forget you’re in a stadium. The festival takes place Jan. 30 to Feb. 1. Information: jamaicajazzandblues.com.

MARCH

MoonsplashAnguilla

This four-day festival, March 13 to 16 in 2014, takes place, technically speaking, on the upmarket island of Anguilla. But really it happens at the Dune Preserve, which might well be another country altogether: a funky beachfront bar fashioned from driftwood, teeming with nooks and crannies. Aging American hippies, Rastafarian locals, cap-and-camera-wearing tourists — all populate Planet Dune, as its known during Moonsplash, for shows by reggae acts like the Wailers, Toots and the Maytals and Gregory Isaacs. The powwow is presided over by Bankie Banx, owner of the Dune and himself a reggae-rocker in the vein of both Bobs: Marley and Dylan. Information: olaidebanks.wix.com/moonsplash.

APRIL

Tobago Jazz ExperienceTobago

The twin-island republic of Trinidad and Tobago blessed us with three genres of music: steel pan, calypso and soca, a kind of calypso on steroids — the high-voltage soundtrack of modern Caribbean carnival. All three sounds are showcased at this weeklong, island-wide festival roving from sleepy seaside villages to the island’s tourist-friendly capital, Scarborough. Bring a rag, a flag, a towel — anything with which to obey the artist onstage when he orders all to “jump and wave”: soca’s magic words, meant very literally. Information: tobagojazzexperience.com.

MAY

Saint Lucia Jazz & Arts FestivalSt. Lucia

The name is for real — you’ll hear jazz at this one. And everything else: This stalwart 12-day fest (April 30 to May 11 in 2014), opened 21 years ago, takes a kitchen-sink approach, delivering everything from reggae, soca and steel pan to American R&B, European jazz and French-Caribbean zouk. The stunning venues — a.k.a. the island itself — may be the ultimate draw: Pigeon Island National Monument, where the main shows take place, is a serene slice of picture-perfect Caribbeanness; parks in the rustic south of the island, home to free daytime concerts, showcase the majestic Piton mountains, the paramount headliners. Past performers have included Hugh Masakela, the Isley Brothers and Ne-Yo. Information: stluciajazz.org.

JUNE

St. Kitts Music Festival

It prides itself on being a music festival, not a jazz or blues or reggae one, and this translates into three nights that run the generic gamut. No, really, the full gamut; over the years I’ve witnessed an outright peculiar combination of lineups: the rapper Ja Rule and Billy Ocean? The exhilarating soca star Machel Montano and Michael Bolton? Yet the festival works, perhaps because of St. Kitts’s intimate, community-oriented vibe: At show after show, crowds of locals and tourists flock to the outdoor stadium with an open mind, thrilled to partake in rhythm and melody, whatever package it arrives in. In 2014, the festival is from June 26 to 28. Information: musicfestival.hailup.com.

JULY

Reggae SumfestMontego Bay, Jamaica

Are you a reggae fanatic? Then from the ends of the earth, thou shalt make thy way — pilgrimage-like, as I’ve dutifully done for a decade — to this be-all-and-end-all of Jamaican music shows, next year on July 13 to 19. Since 1992 it’s attracted tens of thousands to a colossal field for performances by all the relevant names in reggae (including Shabba Ranks, Sean Paul and all the Marley sons) and its younger, hip-hop-flavored offspring, dancehall; at least a couple of big-deal hip-hop and R&B acts are also thrown in for good measure. Three nights of shows — staged on an enormous field encircled by food and drink vendors — wrapping up well after the sun has come up demands stamina, yes, but the reward is sweet: reggae nirvana. Information: reggaesumfest.com.

OCTOBER

Dominica World Creole Music FestivalRoseau, Dominica

This unique three-day fest — the Caribbean’s only one with French-Caribbean music as its centerpiece — is trilingual: You’ll hear English, French Creole and Jamaican patois. In an outdoor stadium in the heart of the island’s capital, Roseau, you’ll discover Dominican bouyon music, also known as jump up — which nicely captures what it sounds like: New Orleans, with a Caribbean accent. How many other festivals can claim two Haitian presidential candidates in past lineups: the rapper Wyclef Jean and the current president, Michel Martelly, back when he was the zouk singer Sweet Mickey? Information: wcmfdominica.com.

SUMMER IN THE CITY

New York

As a kind of American annex to the Caribbean, New York City knows a thing or two about recreating that festival vibe during summer months. June belongs to the all-day Groovin in the Park Festival (groovininthepark.com) in Roy Wilkins Park, in Jamaica, Queens, which fuses soulful American acts like Patti LaBelle with reggae and lovers rock — the Jamaican version of R&B. July is for jerk: At the Grace Jamaican Jerk Festival (jerkfestivalny.com), food — specifically the spicy flavor in its title — is the main event, but Jamaican artists also deliver stellar performances over the course of the day at Roy Wilkins Park. Labor Day, home to the West Indian American Day Parade — a.k.a. New York City Carnival — is one big music festival, at clubs and venues all weekend long. This year, though, was the debut of one that promises to be a staple: for three nights, the Caribbean Fever Irie Jamboree Music Festival transforms the Barclays Center in Brooklyn into three rhythm-soaked islands: Haiti, Jamaica and Trinidad.



Britain Needs a First Amendment

London — Last month, two figures at the heart of Britain’s political and journalistic establishment went on trial.

Rebekah Brooks is the former chief executive of Rupert Murdoch’s News International and a close friend of Prime Minister David Cameron. Andy Coulson was editor of the now defunct tabloid News of the World and Mr. Cameron’s former director of communications.

Ms. Brooks and Mr. Coulson face various charges of conspiracy to intercept voicemail, bribe public officials and pervert the course of justice, counts that arise from the “phone hacking” scandal, in which journalists were discovered illegally tapping mobile phones of both celebrities and the public. It will be one of Britain’s most significant criminal trials in years.

On the same day that Ms. Brooks and Mr. Coulson appeared in court, Mr. Cameron issued barely veiled threats against the Guardian newspaper. If the Guardian did not “demonstrate some social responsibility,” he warned, “it would be very difficult for the government to stand back and not to act.” What drew Mr. Cameron’s wrath was the newspaper’s role in publishing the revelations of the American whistle-blower, Edward Snowden.

The Guardian revelations have led to a concerted campaign of denunciation by the security forces and politicians. Andrew Parker, head of Britain’s domestic intelligence service, MI5, claimed that the Guardian had handed “the advantage to the terrorists.” Lord Carlile, the government’s former independent reviewer of terrorism legislation, has accused the newspaper of committing a “criminal act.”

What links the trials of Ms. Brooks and Mr. Coulson and the political campaign against the Guardian is that both are key moments in the fraught debate in Britain about press regulation — and the schizophrenia among commentators toward such regulation. Both left and right demand freedom for journalism of which they approve. Both want to regulate the press they deplore. And both are helping erode the freedoms of Britain’s newspapers.

It all started with the phone hacking scandal. Outrage over the illegal tapping of mobile phones developed into a general fury at the behavior of an “out of control” press. The government set up the so-called Leveson Inquiry, named after the judge who chaired the year-long investigation. Its report , published last December, proposed the establishment of a regulatory body to police standards and impose sanctions.

The government eventually decided to implement the Leveson proposals through a Royal Charter, an obscure medieval legal instrument. A separate law allows courts to impose punitive fines in libel cases on newspapers that refuse to join the supposedly “voluntary” body. The aim is to allow Parliament to establish a regulatory framework for the press while maintaining the fiction that politicians are not involved in the process.

The right-wing press in Britain has been fiercely opposed to these proposals from the start. Liberals and the left have been deeply divided. Many civil libertarians have recognized the dangers posed by even minimal political oversight of the press. Others, driven by a loathing of Mr. Murdoch, and a desire to rein in tabloids, have lent their support to greater regulation. Britain, they argue, is not Zimbabwe, and there is no real threat to the freedom of the press from such minimal regulation.

It’s true that Britain is not Zimbabwe. And the new Royal Charter won’t turn Britain into a police state. But as the concerted attack on the Guardian reveals, political interference in investigative journalism is a real threat. Indeed, if press freedom is under such pressure now, how much more will it be under when new, more coercive, regulations are introduced?

At the same time liberals are confusing the legal and the moral issues involved. The Leveson inquiry set out to investigate the “culture, practice and ethics of the press.” From passing off gossip as news, to not respecting privacy, to failing to hold to account those in power, there are clearly major problems with the culture and ethics of the British newspaper industry.

Certain practices, such as phone hacking, are, and should be, treated as criminal offenses. But most of the issues that the Leveson inquiry addressed cannot be remedied through tighter regulation or prosecution; they require shifts in social attitudes and practices, and not just within the newspaper industry.

Partisan loyalties are, however, blinding both sides to the real meaning of press freedom. Commentators on the left who defend the Guardian’s right to publish uncomfortable truths about those in power seem oblivious to the dangers posed to such journalism by the Leveson proposals. Meanwhile, many on the right fail to understand that the reason to oppose greater press regulation is precisely so that the Guardian can have the freedom to publish what it did.

As a result, the very newspapers that have denounced the British government’s regulatory proposals as an unacceptable infringement upon press freedom have lined up with politicians and the security forces to lead the charge against the Guardian.

The conservative Daily Mail, for instance, among the fiercest of opponents of the Leveson proposals, has condemned the “lethal irresponsibility” of what it called in a headline “The paper that helps Britain’s enemies.” Far from defending the press from state interference, it has all but demanded the arrest of Guardian journalists.

What we have today in Britain is a tribal view of press freedom. Both sides want to defend freedom for the journalists they like while silencing the journalists they despise. Neither side seems to understand that the moment you invite politicians or the police to determine what is and is not acceptable journalism, freedom is eroded for all of us, whatever our political beliefs.

Oh, for a British First Amendment.


Kenan Malik is a writer, lecturer, broadcaster and the author of “From Fatwa to Jihad: The Rushdie Affair and Its Aftermath.” 


INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK TIMES



How Hipsters Ruined Paris

PARIS — THE northern edge of Paris’s Ninth Arrondissement, near the Place Pigalle, was once known as “la Nouvelle-Athènes,” both for the neo-Classical flourishes of its most graceful blocks and for the creative geniuses who swept in to inhabit them.

This was the original “gay Paree” on display in Edouard Manet’s “Bar at the Folies-Bergère,” a Bohemia of near-mythical proportions in which every tier of society — from the well heeled to the creative to the horizontally employed — collided in the district’s cafes, theaters and cabarets. It was the Paris of Alexandre Dumas, Victor Hugo, Gustave Moreau and Pierre-Auguste Renoir.

Paris has long been a palimpsest of different cities, each new iteration grafted on top of the still visible last, spanning the extremes of human excellence and beauty and, just as crucially, filth and squalor. The area around Pigalle in particular — which American G.I.’s aptly called “Pig Alley” — was always a mixture of both, its seediness informing the artistic production and spirit of numerous generations of inhabitants. You can see it in Edgar Degas’s brush strokes and hear it in Edith Piaf’s voice.

But it’s disappearing. Today, the neighborhood has been rechristened “South Pigalle” or, in a disheartening aping of New York, SoPi. Organic grocers, tasteful bistros and an influx of upscale American cocktail bars are quietly displacing the pharmacies, dry cleaners and scores of seedy bar à hôtesses that for decades have defined the neighborhood.

These “hostess bars,” marked by barely dressed women perched in the windows, are the direct descendants of the regulated brothels that thrived here from Napoleon’s time until the postwar purge of the 1940s. The French daily Libération reports that in 2005 there were 84 such establishments around Pigalle. Today there are fewer than 20. Their disappearance is a watermark of the quarter’s rapid loss of grit and character alike.

When my wife and I first moved here in 2011, I wasn’t sure what to make of living in the middle of a functioning red-light district. Our neighborhood, though safe and well on its way to gentrification, remained funky in the original sense of the term. In addition to cigarette smoke and baking bread, there was the whiff of dirt and sex in the air. It took a while for me to get used to the tap-tapping on windows — or hissing and tongue clicking from open doors — that greeted me as I passed the bars on my way to fill a prescription or buy a bottle of Pouilly-Fumé.

I have never quite gotten used to the transsexual hookers who traipse the Boulevard de Clichy outside the area’s various sex shops and with whom I must share the carnivalesque sidewalk on my way in and out of the post office. Frankly, they make me uncomfortable.

But I’ve come to see that unease as a good thing the longer I stay in this corner of France, a country where the world’s oldest profession continues to enjoy a special patrimonial status and where, try as it might, the government can’t seem to un-sew that tawdry patch from the national quilt. (It is now considering criminalizing johns, which prompted incensed writers and luminaries to pen a spirited manifesto in protest.)

We should be grateful to be jolted from our anesthetized routines, confronted when we can be with surroundings and neighbors that are not injection-molded to the contours of our own bobo predilections. Too much of modern urban life revolves around never feeling less than fully at ease; about having even the minutest of experiences tailored to a set of increasingly demanding and homogeneous tastes — from the properly sourced coffee grounds that make the morning’s flat white to the laboriously considered iPod soundtracks we rely on to cancel the world’s noise. The logical extension is to “curate” our urban spaces like style blogs or Pinterest boards representing a single, self-satisfied and extremely sheltered expression of middle- and upper-middle-class sensibility.

Outside my window, and adjacent to a baby boutique that stocks cashmere swaddle blankets, is a nondescript Asian massage parlor. On nice summer days, there is one masseuse who likes to prop open the door, pull her chiropractic table into the fresh air and sunbathe between clients. Once I watched a well-turned-out mother with toddler approach as the woman was smoking a cigarette. Instead of giving the kind of not-in-my-backyard glare I imagined her Park Slope counterpart might unleash, she just asked the masseuse for a light. They shared a few friendly words before going their separate ways, leaving me to wonder why I thought that should be odd.

SUCH encounters are getting rarer by the week, but they remind me that genuinely engaging with an urban space means encountering and making room for an assortment of lifestyles and social realities — some appealing, some provocative, and some repulsive. This is what the Situationists meant by pyschogeography, or, as Guy Debord put it, the “specific effects of the geographical environment (whether consciously organized or not) on the emotions and behavior of individuals.”

Down the street, where Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec once had his studio, you now must pass a store called “Pigalle” — a high-end streetwear purveyor — and then Buvette Gastrotèque, the handsome new Paris outpost of a faux-French restaurant and bar from the West Village.

From there a left turn puts you at the intersection of Rue Victor Massé and Rue Frochot, where, in the space of one half-block, three hostess bars have recently been shuttered and reopened as upscale cocktail lounges. That number includes the famous Dirty Dick, now a Polynesian-themed luxury rum bar, with the name and grungy facade kept ironically intact. Inside, the atmosphere is far more beach bum than bordello; the most subversive element is a smoking room in the back.

Directly opposite, beside a dilapidated DVD shop, black-clad bouncers assemble a velvet rope each night in front of a pristine new bar called Glass. It is the brainchild of a polyglot team of N.Y.U. grads who have decided (correctly, judging by their success) that what Parisians want most these days are tacos, hot dogs and homemade tonic water in their G & Ts. Le F’Exhib — the lone holdout on the block, where the girls and the ravaged exterior seemed to age in tandem — finally closed its doors this fall.

And so a vivid and storied layer of authentic Paris is being wiped out not by not-in-my-backyard activism, government edict or the rapaciousness of Starbucks or McDonald’s but by the banal globalization of hipster good taste, the same pleasant and invisible force that puts kale frittata, steel-cut oats and burrata salad on brunch tables from Stockholm to San Francisco.

Drifting through these streets, as they are scrubbed clean and homogenized before my eyes, my thoughts turn to Blaise Pascal, who once wrote “a man does not show his greatness by being at one extremity, but rather by touching both at once.” The same, of course, could be said of neighborhoods. The nicer this one gets, the more it seems to feel like the one I left behind in Brooklyn.

People say you had to be in Paris in the ’20s or New York in the ’80s. The sad truth of our contemporary moment seems to be only that you no longer need to be anywhere in particular anymore.

The brunch is all the same.



